| Coding journal |  |
| :-- | :-- |
| Author | [Rasmus Groth](https://github.com/bliiir) |
| First entry | 20181116, Utterslev, Copenhagen, Denmark |
| Last entry | 20190108, Utterslev, Copenhagen, Denmark |

---

# Crontab and Python3

I am deploying my ccat - Crypto-Currency-Auto-Trader platform this week and I need to get the most recent candles from the exchanges I am using. For this I have considered a bunch of things  as described in another [post](), but to get started, I decided to do the most basic and simple thing I could think about - [Crontabs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron). Crontabs will run a script at a specific time each minute, hour, day etc. Very handy for now.

These are my notes on setting up cronjobs

## Create a Cronjob
You can play around on [crontab.guru here](https://crontab.guru/) to find the best settings. When you are done:

Open up crontab:

```
crontab -e
```

Add your job to the file:

```
...

* * * * * python3 /my/path/to/my/file.py
```
Save and close the file.

Great. In principle you are done. This will now run every minute of every hour of every day of the month of every month of the year and every weekday.

For me that wasn't true and I spent a good amount of time tinkering until I got it to work. Here is what I found.

## Logging

First of all, since you will be detaching from the terminal window and the server, you can't just print the result of the script running using `print()` in python. You need to direct the output of your file to a logfile.

Here is what I did:

```py
# Import the config file with the environment variables
from ccat import config as cf

# Enable logging
logging.basicConfig(
    filename=cf.logfile,
    level=logging.INFO)

# Log the event
logging.info(f'my message {my_timestamp}')
```
Cool - t
Before your crontab will run your jobs, there are a couple of considerations.

## Permissions
First of all, you need to make sure that the user running the script (crontab will use the `root` user). Depending on the permission settings on the file, that might not work. You will need it to be executable by any user. To do that, write the following command in your terminal:

```
chmod +x {filename}
```

## Interpreter
Nex you might need to tell your system where to find the correct [Python interpreter](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7670303/purpose-of-usr-bin-python3). I am using Python3.x so in my case I will want it to us the Python3 interpreter. To do that add a shebang at the top of your Python script file:

```
#!/usr/bin/env python3
```

## Paths
I am using Python's `logging` module to write to a logfile. I want this to work both locally and remotely. There are a number of ways to do that. Personally I like putting the path in the environment to avoid having to change settings files or have elaborate `.gitignore` schemes. I am not very well versed in the consequences of this so don't take my word for it. Here is what I do:
I have a config.py file in which I set an environment variable:

```py
import os
logfile = os.environ["LOGFILE"]
```

### Local
On the local machine I add something like this to the `/env/bin/activate` script:

```
export LOGFILE=/absolute/path/to/logfile.log
```
Which I unset (further up in the activate script) so that it is no longer part of the environment when I deactivate the virtual environment:

```
deactivate () {
    ...
    unset LOGFILE
    ...
}
```

Remember to source the environement again in the terminal:

```
source /env/bin/deactivate
```

### Remote
I do the same on the server - except it is a lot more complicated. When running crontab it will execute as root - no matter what user you sudo into in the crontab itsel. That means the python script will not be able to access the environment variables for the {myuser} user. We have to set them for the root user.

I am not in a virtual environment and therefore I set it in the `/etc/environment` file.

Before doing that I tried a bunch of stuff to get at the environment variables when executing the python files:

- See if the key is spelled correctly in the .bash_profile
- Set the environment variables for the root user in `~/.bash_profile`
- Set the environment variables for the root user in `~/.profile`
- Force the cronjob to be executed as {myuser} instead of root
- Force the cronjob to be executed as root instead of {myuser}
- Set the environment variables for the root user in `.bashrc`


... none of them worked

To check I wasn't doing it wrong I did the following:

- Set the path manually in the python script and see if it executes
- Execute the script from the command line as {myuser} using the os.environ variable

Which worked - thank `{insert belief-system representative}`!

...

Just to be clear - it would work like this:

Switch to root user

```
sudo su
```

Open `/etc/environment`

Add:

```
export LOGFILE=/absolute/path/to/logfile.log
```
To the file - I like to put it next to the other environment variables

And also add:

```
deactivate () {
    ...
    unset LOGFILE
    ...
}
```

Inside the `deactivate () {}` part

# Appendix

### [Where are the crontab logs located?](https://askubuntu.com/a/56811)

```
/var/log/syslog
```

```
grep CRON /var/log/syslog
```

### Where are the crontabs located?

All crontabs can be found here:

    /var/spool/cron/crontabs/

Or here:

    /var/spool/cron/
